---
title: "A Novel Algorithm for Ship Route Planning Considering Motion Characteristics and ENC Vector Maps"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-5-15-paper-1
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-5-15
venue: 'Journal of Marine Science and Engineering'
paperurl: 'https://www.mdpi.com/2077-1312/11/6/1102'
citation: ''
---
## Abstract
Global route planning is a pivotal function of unmanned surface vehicles (USVs). For ships, the safety of navigation is the priority. This paper presents the VK-RRT* algorithm as a way of designing the planned route automatically. Different from other algorithms or studies, this study employs electronic navigation chart (ENC) vector data instead of grid maps as the basis of the search, which reduces data error when converting the vector map into the grid map. In addition, Delaunay triangulation is employed to organize vector data, in which the depth value is taken as a factor to ensure the safety of the planning route. Furthermore, the initial planned route is not suitable for ship tracking as it does not consider the ship motion characteristics. Therefore, the planned route needs to be further optimized. In the final part, we also conducted experiments to verify the effectiveness and advantages of the proposed algorithm. The results show that the proposed algorithm could reduce the lengths of paths by about 23% on average and save planning time; these are largely dependent on the environment.

[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/jmse-11-01102-v2.pdf)

Recommended citation:He, Q., Hou, Z., & Zhu, X. (2023). A Novel Algorithm for Ship Route Planning Considering Motion Characteristics and ENC Vector Maps. Journal of Marine Science and Engineering, 11(6), 1102.